Banana is actually an Arabic word for fingers.
There are more than 300,000 plant species identified to date, and the list is constantly expanding.
Elephant grass found in Africa is named so because it can grow up to 4.5 metres, which is high enough to hide an elephant in it.
Tree resin often contains plant material or tiny insects that are trapped within.
Oak trees do not produce acorns until they are 50 years old. 
The African tree, Baobab can store 1000 to 120,000 litres of water in its tree trunk.
Lightning is known to strike oak trees more than any other tree.
Bamboo is an extremely rapid growing plant. In fact, some bamboo varieties can grow almost a meter (about 3.2 feet) in a single day.
Caffeine works as a pesticide in a coffee plant.
More than 85% of plant life is found in the ocean.  
Gingko Biloba, which dates to about 250 million years ago, is the oldest living tree species in the world.
French fries would be healthier if the skin is left on it as all the nutrients are in its skin.
Bananas contain a natural chemical that makes people feel happy.
Apples, onions and potatoes have the same taste. You can test this by pinching your nose shut while eating them.
The country Brazil is named after a tree.
Rafflesia – the largest flower in the world – can grow over three feet in diameter.
Avocados and tomatoes are actually fruits.
A carnivorous plant in the Philippines is capable of devouring a full-grown rat.
Around 70,000 plant species are being utilized for medicinal purposes.
Around 600 species of carnivorous plants eat small animals and insects too.
More than 20% of the world’s oxygen supply is produced by the Amazon Rainforest.
Baseball bats are created from Hickory Trees while cricket bats from Willow Trees.
Onions can make you sleepy if you eat too many at a time since they act as natural sedatives.
Chemicals released from freshly cut grass can be highly effective as a stress reliever.
Dandelion can be eaten whole, right from its roots up to the petals.
There are some 320,000 species of plants, found on all continents, even Antarctica. Since more are discovered every year, that number will increase over time.
90% of the foods people eat come from just 30 plants, yet there are over 80,000 edible plants in the world.
The typical mature tree can provide enough wood to make 170,100 pencils.
Cabbage, broccoli, kale, cauliflower and kohlrabi are all the same species of plant (Brassica oleracea), but were selectively bred for different uses, to the point where they no longer even resemble one another.
Spin your plants around so they grow evenly and not lopsided. Every week.
Don’t fertilize in the winter. Only in the spring and summer.  We suggest Bonide Liquid Plant Food; it’s perfect for houseplants.
Use pots with holes in them. Very helpful and necessary if you are a gardening newbie.
Try taking your houseplants outside for the summer and grow them in the shade. It is amazing how much they grow!
If you are prone to giving to watering too much, buy a moisture meter. It will help you learn how much water your plant needs.
Speaking of watering, saucers are great for catching excess water, but water sitting in the saucer all the time helps keep the roots too soggy. Try this if possible: take your plant to the sink, water well.  Let water drain for a bit then put back in the saucer. It will help keep your surfaces drip free.
Use a systemic insecticide. This product is sprinkled on the surface of the soil, and the insecticide gets absorbed into the plant, helping keep bugs away.  It really does work, and an ounce of prevention keeps you from having the headache of spraying insecticide inside your home later.
Cutting off the browned bits off your leaves is a great way to tidy up. Follow the natural leaf shape, if the leaf shape comes to a point, don’t cut it back straight across.  It just won’t look natural, and defeats the tidying up you were trying to do.
Dusting the leaves can be donne the easy way or the hard way. Yes, you can wet a cloth and wipe each leaf. This can grow old if you have more than a dozen or so leaves.  I take mine to the shower in the winter and let the overhead water wet all the leaves down, cleaning off the dust.  Leave to dry before taking back to their regular spot.  If you take your plants outside in the summer, a garden hose does the trick.
Knowing when to let go. We see lots of sick houseplants come in, some are just too far gone to keep as is, however there are many plants that you can pinch of the ends or tips (we call that propagating) to make a new plant. IE: Spider plant or also called Airplane plant. The main plant puts new starts off of a hanging stem, and each “baby” can make a new plant
Most of the time, people are concerned they aren’t watering enough, when in fact they are watering far too much! Plants don’t want to have “wet feet,” a friendly term for when their roots are absolutely saturated from sitting in a puddle for days
That means a watering schedule of once or twice a week is suitable for most plants, where you water the plant thoroughly but infrequently. When I water my houseplants, I will pour water onto the soil at a slow, deliberate pace, until the water starts escaping from the drainage holes of the container. That’s your signal to stop watering!
Purchasing a simple spray bottle is also helpful for houseplants. A light misting once or twice a day is usually beneficial. Remember that we’re trying to duplicate the natural environment for these plants, and that means humidity and misting!
Houseplants typically require high light (six or more hours a day), medium light (four to six hours a day), or low light (less than three hours a day). Plants will either require bright or direct light (sunlight from a south-facing window) or indirect or filtered light (sunlight through a curtain or light from a bulb).
If plants don’t get the light they need, they won’t necessarily die, but they will stop producing new growth.
Although plants carry out photosynthesis to process the sugars they need to survive, they also need a more direct form of food to carry out growing processes. Providing fertilizers to your houseplants helps ensure they will remain happy and healthy.
Almost all houseplants need a minimum temperature of 55ºF to survive. Keep plants away from areas of cold drafts in the winter. The warmer it gets for houseplants, the happier they are!
Use a cloth to wipe down the leaves of houseplants occasionally, to prevent the white buildup and coating of dust that can impact their health.
No plant rivals the undeniable cuteness of the African violet. Their plump, fuzzy leaves and round, bright purple blossoms are straight-up delightful. They’re like a waaaay more low-maintenance puppy that never wakes you up at 3 a.m. or destroys your favourite shoes. To keep your African violet healthy, water the soil directly and let it dry out between waterings. Make sure to rotate the pot 90 degrees every time you water it to ensure that the leaves receive equal amounts of sunlight, which will help your plant grow evenly.
Spider plants produce tiny little spider babies “” mini-sized plants that can be plucked off and grown into a whole new plant. If you wanna spread a little joy over the winter, your friends and family will love being the recipient of a fresh little baby plant you grew yourself!
Little, plump succulent leaves resemble under ripe green grapes and form long tendrils, spilling out the sides of the container like chubby green ropes. Like most succulents, it doesn’t like to be overwatered, so wait for the soil to dry out between waterings and scale back on how often you water over the winter.